process_sandbox documentation & build (#524)
microsoft/verona: experiments/process_sandbox/README.md

   - [libsandbox.cc](src/libsandbox.cc) is the library that manages sandbox lifecycle.
 - [tests](tests) contains tests.
   Some are stand-alone unit tests, the files that start `sandbox-` and `sandboxlib-` are the parent / child parts of tests that use the complete sandboxing framework.

Building
--------

The following dependencies are required in order to build the `process_sandbox`:

```
libfmt
libseccomp
libbsd
```

:warning: There is a known compilation issue with gcc/g++ versions < 10.
Either upgrade your gcc/g++ to at least version 10 or switch to clang.

The building process is similar to the rest of the project.
To build in debug mode, do the following in the `process_sandbox` folder:

```
mkdir build_ninja
cd build_ninja
cmake .. -GNinja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
ninja
```

Tests
------

The previous steps build 15 tests, 8 unit and regression tests, and 7 end-to-end sandbox tests:

> * [test-sandbox-basic](tests/sandbox-basic.cc): Creates 3 sandboxes wrapping around a small library that exposes a function returning the sum of two `int`. Each sandbox is called twice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [test-sandbox-basic](tests/sandbox-basic.cc): Creates 3 sandboxes wrapping around a small library that exposes a function returning the sum of two `int`.
  Each sandbox is called twice.
```
(One sentence per line makes diffs easier)

> * [test-sandbox-callback-basic](tests/sandbox-callback-basic.cc): Creates a simple sandbox and registers a callback function that returns an `int`. The sandbox library simply invokes the callback and asserts it gets the correct value (`42`). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [test-sandbox-callback-basic](tests/sandbox-callback-basic.cc): Creates a simple sandbox and registers a callback function that returns an `int`.
   The sandbox library simply invokes the callback and asserts it gets the correct value (`42`). 
```

* [test-sandbox-callback-recursive](tests/sandbox-callback-recursive.cc): Creates a single sandbox that recursively invokes 6 nested levels of callbacks, i.e., a callback triggers a call into the sandbox that itself invokes a callback etc. 

> * [test-sandbox-crash](tests/sandbox-crash.cc): Creates 3 sandboxes meant to crash (calls `abort`). The crash triggers a `runtime_error` exception caught in the parent process. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [test-sandbox-crash](tests/sandbox-crash.cc): Creates 3 sandboxes meant to crash (calls `abort`).
  The crash triggers a `runtime_error` exception caught in the parent process. 
```

> * [test-sandbox-fake-open](tests/sandbox-fake-open.cc): Creates a shared memory file and a sandbox. The sandbox opens the file in two different ways: 1) with a raw system call, and 2) with the `open` function that performs a callback to the host. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [test-sandbox-fake-open](tests/sandbox-fake-open.cc): Creates a shared memory file and a sandbox. The sandbox opens the file in two different ways:
  1. With a raw system call, and
  2. With the `open` function that performs a callback to the host.
```

> * [test-sandbox-modify-pagemap](tests/sandbox-modify-pagemap.cc): Creates a sandbox attempting to modify the access rights of the pagemap using `mprotect`. The `mprotect` call should fail with a `permission denied`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [test-sandbox-modify-pagemap](tests/sandbox-modify-pagemap.cc): Creates a sandbox attempting to modify the access rights of the pagemap using `mprotect`.
  The `mprotect` call should fail with a `permission denied`.
```

(One sentence per line makes later diffs easier)

> * [test-sandbox-zlib](tests/sandbox-zlib.cc): Uses `zlib` to `deflate`, i.e., compress, the program's file. This test compares the output produced by a sandboxed and an unsandboxed version of zlib. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [test-sandbox-zlib](tests/sandbox-zlib.cc): Uses `zlib` to `deflate`, i.e., compress, the program's file.
  This test compares the output produced by a sandboxed and an unsandboxed version of zlib. 
```

* [test-sandbox-network](tests/test-sandbox-network.cc): Example of how network policies can be used to restrict the sandbox's ability to perform network operations. 

> This test creates a server sandbox and gradually enables network operations (1) `getaddrinfo`, (2) `bind`ing to a socket, (3) the ability to receive messages on the socket from the parent, and (4) the ability for asandboxed client to `connect` to the server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This test creates a server sandbox and gradually enables network operations that are blocked by default for sandboxes:
  - `getaddrinfo` for name lookup (requires network access for DNS lookups and so implicitly accesses a global namespace).
  - `bind`ing to socket to a local address (the local address is part of a global namespace.
  - `connect`ing to a remote address (the remote address forms part of a global namespace)
```

Walkthrough Example
-------------------

In this section we provide a slightly more detailed walkthrough for the `test-sandbox-basic` test.

### Files

* [tests/sandbox-basic.cc](tests/sandbox-basic.cc): Defines the main entry point of the test.
* [tests/sandboxlib-basic.cc](tests/sandboxlib-basic.cc): Defines the basic library that will be sandboxed.

### Running the test

```
./build_ninja/tests/test-sandbox-basic

# expected Output

Adding 1 to 2 in sandbox
Adding 2147483647 to -1 in sandbox
Adding 1 to 2 in sandbox
Adding 2147483647 to -1 in sandbox
Adding 1 to 2 in sandbox
Adding 2147483647 to -1 in sandbox
```

### High Level Description

This tests creates 3 sandboxes wrapping around the simple adder defined by the sandboxed library.
Each sandbox runs in a separate process and is called twice.

### Runtime Walkthrough

Below is the process tree generated by the test:

```
test-sandbox-basic─┬─3*[library_runner]

>                    └─{test-sandbox-basic}

Reviewer: What is this line?  It looks like `test-sandbox-basic` is a child of itself?

Author: This is the MemoryServiceProvider:
https://github.com/microsoft/verona/blob/master/experiments/process_sandbox/src/libsandbox.cc#L280

```

The test creates three children processes and one thread.

> * *Thread:* It is created as part of the `sandbox::Library::MemoryServiceProvider` defined in [src/libsandbox.cc](src/libsandbox.cc) and handles pagemap updates from children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time a sandbox is created the library creates a background thread (`sandbox::Library::MemoryServiceProvider`, defined in [src/libsandbox.cc](src/libsandbox.cc)).
This thread listens for RPCs from the child processes requesting updates to the pagemap.
It is responsible for validating that the requests correspond to parts of the address space owned by the child and that the requested updates are well formed.
The updates made by this are then visible to the children via the shared memory object that backs the pagemap.
```

> * *Processes:* Each process runs the [library_runner](src/library_runner.cc) which dynamically loads the sandboxed library `sandboxed-basic.so`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each sandbox manages a child process that `execve`s [library_runner](src/library_runner.cc) with reduced privileges (no access to any global namespace).
This process then loads the library that contains the in-sandbox code, in this case `sandboxed-basic.so`.
```

                                                 |                                              |        PageMap                               |
                                                 |                                              |                                              |
                                                 |        PageMap                               |                                              | 
  |-- 0x7ffe80000000 -- 0x7ffec0000000 [rw-s]    |                                              |                                              |-- child 3 region [rw-s]
                                                 |                                              |                                            
  |-- 0x7fff00000000 -- 0x7fff40000000 [rw-s]    |                                              |-- child 2 region [rw-s]                     
                                                 |                                                                                           
  |-- 0x7fff80000000 -- 0x7fffc0000000 [rw-s]    |-- child 1 region [rw-s]                                                                   

> 

Reviewer: I think this picture would be easier to understand if the ranges were shown as ranges.  It confused me that there's a big range shown for the pagemap but then the thing that looks like the end of the pagemap is actually the shared memory object.  The location of the pagemap in the child's memory is not very important, the fact that each sandbox's heap is in the same location as it is in the parent is the key thing that this diagram needs to convey.

```

The `library_runner` is responsible, at initialization time, for ensuring that both the `PageMap` and the child's memory region (i.e., heap) are correctly mapped in the process's address space.

> For that purposes, it uses the `memfd` file descriptors inherited from the parent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For that purposes, it uses the shared-memory file descriptors inherited from the parent.
```
It would be good to avoid Linux-specific descriptions as much as possible here.

It relies on `mmap` to install the heap as a shared memory region that is both readable and writable.

> For the `PageMap`, it resizes the region and drops write access to the corresponding file descriptor using `mmap`.

Reviewer: Does it?  It shouldn't resize the region at all, and the parent should be dropping write access when it sets up the sandbox policy.

On platforms with well-designed security mechanisms, [it doesn't have the rights to do anything other than a read-only mapping of the shared-memory object](https://github.com/microsoft/verona/blob/b5be27ea4730301bc893d8746fa758741b2e0ab4/experiments/process_sandbox/include/process_sandbox/platform/sandbox_capsicum.h#L77).  On Linux, [it can't map the memory read-write](https://github.com/microsoft/verona/blob/b5be27ea4730301bc893d8746fa758741b2e0ab4/experiments/process_sandbox/include/process_sandbox/platform/sandbox_seccomp-bpf.h#L52) (and there's a [test that checks that it can't](https://github.com/microsoft/verona/blob/b5be27ea4730301bc893d8746fa758741b2e0ab4/experiments/process_sandbox/tests/sandboxlib-modify-pagemap.cc#L22)).  It can resize the file on Linux and so we close the file descriptor before we run any untrusted code.  We should fix this using the sealing mechanism on memfd, but we'd still need to close the file descriptor because we fall back to POSIX shared memory if `memfd` doesn't work.

Author: I will clarify that part of the text, I mixed things up.
For the `PageMap`, as you pointed out, we get the following trace in the child:

```
openat(AT_FDCWD, "/proc/self/fd/4", O_RDONLY) = 8
dup2(8, 4)                              = 4
close(8)                                = 0
```

And later on, we map the content with:

```
mmap(NULL, 274877906944, PROT_READ, MAP_SHARED, 4, 0) = 0x7fbff7a1a000
```

Reformulation: 

```
The `library_runner` opens the `memfd` file descriptor that corresponds to the `PageMap` object and maps its content read-only in the child's address space.
```

> Despite observable overlaps between the `PageMap` memory regions and heaps of different children, this initialization step ensures that the corresponding virtual memory is backed by separate physical pages in the different children address spaces. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure what this means.  The key thing is that the same physical memory backs the pagemap, it doesn't matter where the pagemap is in the child's address space because it's accessed via a pointer.  This is an implementation detail that's subject to change: we may want to put the pagemap at the same place in all processes in the future (and we did in the pre-snmalloc2 version).

#### Invoking the sandbox

We follow the execution of the program and show how, on Linux, the parent invokes the `sum` function defined in [sandboxlib-basic](tests/sandboxlib-basic.cc).

> On the parent side, the sandbox library setups a `msg_buffer`, i.e.,  call frame containing the arguments to the function call and a return element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the parent side, the sandbox library sets up a call frame containing the arguments to the function call and a return element in the shared memory region and points the `msg_buffer` field in the header of the shared memory region to this buffer.
```

('set up' is verb phrase, 'setup' is a noun.  You can't noun a thing).

It passes the pointer to that call frame as well as the index of the library's function invoked via shared memory to the child that it wakes up.

> On Linux, semaphores (implemented with the underlying `futex` system call) are used to communciate with the child process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simple one-bit in-memory semaphores are used to communicate with the child process.
These are implemented with the platform's low-level primitive, `futex` on Linux and `_umtx_op` on FreeBSD.
```

The trace below shows the parent's stack trace:

```
#0  syscall () at ../sysdeps/unix/sysv/linux/x86_64/syscall.S:38
#1  0x00007ffff7f3b611 in sandbox::platform::FutexOneBitSem::futex_op (this=0x7fff800000c0, futex_op=1, val=1, timeout=0x0) at ../include/process_sandbox/platform/onebitsem_futex.h:29
#2  0x00007ffff7f3b884 in sandbox::platform::FutexOneBitSem::wake (this=0x7fff800000c0) at ../include/process_sandbox/platform/onebitsem_futex.h:46
#3  0x00007ffff7f38d77 in sandbox::Library::send (this=0x7fffffffd1b0, idx=1, ptr=0x7fff80004020) at ../src/libsandbox.cc:774
#4  0x000055555557e0b0 in sandbox::Function<int, int, int>::operator() (this=0x7fffffffd660, args#0=1, args#1=2) at ../include/process_sandbox/cxxsandbox.h:103
#5  0x000055555557cd65 in test_sum (sb=..., a=1, b=2) at ../tests/sandbox-basic.cc:31
#6  0x000055555557cf18 in main () at ../tests/sandbox-basic.cc:40
```

> On the child's side, the process stuck waiting on the futex is woken up, extracts the index and `msg_buffer`, and invokes the corresponding sandboxed function. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the child's side, the process that was blocked waiting on the one-bit semaphore is woken up, then extracts the index and call frame, and invokes the corresponding sandboxed function. 
```
